---
layout: post
title:  "Bon Voyage Prof Paty"
date:   2020-10-25 00:00:00+02:00
categories:  Humanity
---
> DISCLAIMER: The views and opinions expressed here are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of Devoteam. Any content provided by our bloggers or authors are of their opinion and are not intended to malign any religion, ethnic group, club, organization, company, individual or anyone or anything.

# Samuel Paty
It saddens and angers me when i hear some cutting-throat jihadist running around and intimidating a peaceful society. This time a history teacher was killed by a Russian-born Jihadist in Paris. The same, recurring theme: Charlie Hebdo. I can't help but to think how barbaric this act, and moreover: very sad. No one can actually do anything to prevent it. However, how proud i am to see France inaugurate this dead man as a hero. More: people marched to the street to protest against this blood thirst Jihadist that only knows how to react when anyone insult their [sacred prophet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Historicity_of_Muhammad) instead of a civil discourse. It's a worldview that should be challenged, especially when they put sacredness as a towering constable to dictate who is conducting the supposed blasphemy or not. Is this some kind of North Korean religion or actually a Communist religion ? <br/>
## From Indonesia to Pakistan
I was born and raised in Indonesia. I was raised in Christian Family, but it was very nominal religion in my family until i conducted critical thinking on Christianity and it's truthfulness. I challenged the worldview, only to find Christ in bare presentation from the Gospels. It's very interesting to find Christ but not Christianity: a central figure in the Bible. <br/>
In the midst of this, i was surrounded by the biggest Muslim country in the world. Just like any third-world country, where value matters than reasoning, honor more than performance, family more than individual freedom, i faced a challenge of discrimination, especially because i was not Muslim. It was even truer to my family and Christian friends and others. In University of North Sumatra (USU), my mom faced a discrimination on her career. At General Election Commission (KPU), my sister impacted by an idea from Surah that Muslims can't have a non-muslim leader. You see, Islam as a worldview is very sensitive to political stance. Therefore it's very dangerous to a multicultural society. <br/>
I have seen many Pakistan immigrants and refugees in the Netherlands. They were seeking asylum in the Netherlands because, i remember one of them said to me, running away from Blasphemy law. She mentioned that just because she doesn't commit her position towards Muhammad as *the* Prophet, she has to face Blasphemy law. How come our opinion towards certain religious figure could be dictated by the law? To make a just society, Pakistan should create Blasphemy law towards Jesus, Buddha, and millions of gods from Hindu (Siva, Ganesha, Khrisna, to name just a few) and also the beliefs from atheist.<br/>