---
layout: post
title:  "Thoughts on 2021"
date:   2021-01-03 17:06:56 +0200
categories: investing, strategy
---

> DISCLAIMER: The views and opinions expressed here are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of Accenture. Any content provided by our bloggers or authors are of their opinion and are not intended to malign any religion, ethnic group, club, organization, company, individual or anyone or anything.

# Housing Market in Netherlands
We've been searching for a house in the Netherlands. It's a crappy market and the speculation for winning a house is super lofty. Imagine that for a bidding, you could expect that the seller expects you to pay from 10% to 27% of the asking price. That's about 10k to 50k if the asking price is around 200-250k (so if you want to win your dream house, pay 50k or more. This is a speculation). This is madness. You basically have to dig deeper in your own pocket to have your own house. 
How do you value your house? Housing is an interesting market because the value of the property is appreciating. This is mainly because of the nature of speculation of value of the house. The speculation is influenced mainly to inflation. In this bull-market of economy (at least before Corona hit us hardly), we have a strong inflation of economy. The market has seen the growth of mega companies, like Microsoft, Apple, Google, and Facebook, who have market valuation around 1 Trilion USD. That's the biggest in the history of economy. The market, all over the world, has brought more money to the market. It's not actually true that banks provide more money to the market to increase money supply. It's because the market has seen a major industry advancement that provides very significant values to the market. The IT boom. 
## Lowest Interest Rate
I've seen market of housing in The netherlands for the last 2 years. The interest rate the mortgage provides have been offering is between 1% to 1.3%. So if you borrow 100e, you just have to pay 1e interest per month. That is unbelievably low. I even received an advise to make a fixed-rate annuity mortgage for 10-20 year. Yes, why not?

# IT Security, DevOps, Java
I've been working with Forgerock implementation. This is a company that serves people with advanced version of OpenAM/OpenIDM/OpenDS softwares. This softwares are similar to Active Directory of Microsoft. They grew out of original idea to actually build a security software that manages resource path allocations and policy models and policy administration models for your customers. Pretty advanced software actually. 
Apart from that, i discovered that more and more i actually have been doing more DevOps work than pure Java development. I have been shipping many software from my own laptop to production (virtual) environment. And this term is appropriate for a DevOps engineer rather than Java developer. I don't mind since i like the idea that you have to own your own code to production. This is DevOps culture and mindset. To quote from wikipedia
> DevOps (a portmanteau of “development” and “operations”) is a software development method that stresses communication, collaboration, and integration between software developers and information technology (IT) professionals. A response to the interdependence of software development and IT operations, DevOps aims to help organizations rapidly produce software products and services — and to improve operations performance.

If you see this way, you are selling actually a profitable skillset to the market since you have more broad skillset that the market *actually* needs than only focusing on your Java or python. The biggest value you can get is actually when you provide skills (*supply*) that the market needs so badly (*demand*). At this point, you receive the best worth to your pocket. Although sounds common sense, it is very hard to implement this in skillset. To start with, you should answer this question:
> What skillset should i invest my time with which the market demands it at the right time?

If you learn skill X, how do you know the market, after you complete all the necessary trainings, will want it? This is not just a obscure, abstract skill like programming. This is like a demand for example a skill demand on Software Forgerock's OpenAM. How do you know that this is going to be a good demand? And existentially, would you like to work with it throught the thick and thin of it?
This is hard to guess. Investing in skillset wouldn't give you the global optimal solution to your questions.
## DevSecOps
One interesting opportunity in these options is DevSecOps. This is the practice where you as a DevOps engineer put security practices in your development and operation. This includes your code is not vulnerable to Denial-of-service Attack, use of non-root environment, encrypted network, and habits of putting password in a password vault (not your wikipage or notepad). This can go even further to the implementation of many security scanner and softwares. This are is getting more interesting since all these fintech companies grow ever more bigger. These are companies whose ambition is weighted on capitalizing financial services business using IT solutions. These companies are thriving and pushing the market to the digitalization of your money. Little that you know, the centralized form of server-client model in their digital application makes it vulnerable to the old-classical attacks, such as denial-of-service attack or man-in-the-middle-attack. And the motivation of any hacker could increase many folds since there is money factor in it (you wouldn't spend hours of your working time to hack facebook just earn a profile right?).

## Companies
Investing in companies or making a company is much better strategy in the long run. Company is the smallest unit of economy where within it, all employers work together to build, sell, improve and make a sustainable business. This is hard, but possible thing to do. With many forms of legal form, you can even expand your business by raising fund with stock and deal with many other profit-driven organization by sharing equity of the company. This makes a company is a platform for money-driven people. Like me. 
