---
layout: post
title:  "Against Principalities"
date:   2021-01-04 09:29:01 +0200
categories: strategy, worldview
---

> DISCLAIMER: The views and opinions expressed here are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of Devoteam. Any content provided by our bloggers or authors are of their opinion and are not intended to malign any religion, ethnic group, club, organization, company, individual or anyone or anything.

# The Battle of Ideas
Political stances and ideas are always competing with one another. The classical dualism is the battle between *left* and *right*, where the former is some sort-of liberal, against the norm type of power, and the latter is the conservative where tradition and everlasting values matter than any changes. Unfortunately, many of the corporate worlds have come to adopt many of these powers in their so-called HR agenda and how they want to be the marketable about what they believe. When Paul wrote down that interesting letter to a struggling church in Ephesians, he put the priority of the *enemy*:
> For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but **against principalities**, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. (Ephesians 6:12, KJV). 

# Diversity,  An Abysmal Example
In many of different exhibition of corporate culture, i've noticed that many companies believe that diversity is a good thing, without saying why it is good. We accept people from different cultures and background and the pragmatic approach of hiring people is manifested in daily tasks of interview process. This could stem also from Government and political worldviews where lobbyist and people with power and strategy push their [neo-Marxist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neo-Marxism) idea. Pushing priority towards empowering minorities, they have created many useless debates and many corporates are lost in the conversation. 
## Critical Question
Why diversity is a good thing? And why is it good for corporate? Or a country? What is the utility consequence from it? In an example from a study in Harvard Business Review, a large Swiss company adopts this view, where the executives are coming from entirely different cultures and backgrounds. According to that study, this allows them to penetrate the uncharted territory in different countries, especially with acknowledging differences as their main tenet. It doesn't mean, in order to penetrate market in Japan, they have to hire a Japanese Operating Executives or Economist to win the market: recognizing differences shapes their worldview that many of their actions could have many hidden assumptions in their practical approach.<br/>
On the other side of the spectrum, the study shows why Japan is now a stagnant market. Japan was what China now in mid 1990s. The Japan market was exploded. However, they are now stagnant. They have displayed the conservatism of hiring different executives from different backgrounds, let alone how they treat woman in the workforce. 
## Good, but how to properly implement it?
This is the question that everyone should ask. In the corporate world, people tend to sell this diversity agenda to win the market. Many things that they miss: Corporate world is a for-profit company, and Capitalism is ripe within this type of organization. The change in current political spectrum has shown that millennials have a bent towards more Hollywood, Netflix type of moral position about racial tension and diversity. It's very shallow to conclude your moral compass from screen and believe that it's true. A critical thinking is a rare diamond in many HR approaches in promoting diversity unfortunately (frankly in many aspects in society). They could just get some studies and call them scientific to back their position up about diversity, without actually knowing what the for-profit utilization for that approach. I believe that people don't like to touch this statement because people view the intention of receiving money is bad in itself. Let me align your thoughts about this. Money is like a knife: you can kill people with a knife or cut tomatoes with it. It is a tool human invented for good thing but you could also use that for an evil purpose. 
Let me give these guidelines how you should promote your HR agenda:
1. Do I honestly know what Diversity is (beyond buzzword)? Is it possible that I copy the idea from any competitor in the market?
2. Is my understanding of diversity somehow improving the business objectives? Can I measure it?
* What is going to go haywire to the business objectives if i were to dismiss Diversity entirely?
* Or is it just a nice feature to have?

This helps anyone actually to implement the right approach to your business organization. I'm proposing a framework and guideline, especially because every organization is unique (unless you don't believe that, but why reading this article?)

# Differences
I've been blessed with working with many different cultures. My colleagues and friends come from different countries like India, Holland, Germany (and Western Europe in general), South Korea, China, Nigeria, US, and others. This differences have helped me to actually grow respect to other people opinions and their backgrounds. My wife comes from Czech Republic and she also has a different approach on life. We've seen that in our discussions we sometimes struggle and feel joyful. We live in the tensions and that actually brings life more real. I bring this approach in my work as well. People confess that i'm very open person. It's their discernment that i am honest and they feel it uncommon. As with all virtues, this honest position is not something coming naturally. But not to digress on how to acquire that virtue, i see differences as a statement of reality and a force to challenge my own thinking constantly. This is not a comfortable position. In practice, i sometimes tend to accept people opinions without assessing the truth value behind it. This is key. In an interview with Jordan Peterson at Channel4, Jordan suggests that some of the traits of successful people in their career is Disagreeable. I agree with this proposition. To disagree is a position to challenge the current state and try to find a better solution. But to disagree for the sake of disagreement is not a good idea. It just brings chaos in the table of discussion. 
Proposal:
> Search *the* Truth <br/>

As Socrates depicts in his Allegory of the Cave, we normally see the shadow of the actually thing. The truth is hard to articulate and discover. In the modern world, we delegate the search of the Truth to Scientists and philosophers alike. But i am digressing. We search the truth through differences at workplace. This actually an interesting, practical approach. Differences brings the nature of the real thing (not shadow) because we actually have different opinions. To see this is a concrete example, we want to deliver a project. My Indian colleagues bring practical step, in every single calculable steps in the plan. My Dutch colleagues bring argumentation and discussion (*poldering* in Dutch). My Chinese colleagues bring respect in honoring the other side of the table. But there is a truth in this: we need to do business. We need to bring value to our client and we select the right pronouncement of culture from various team members. With my Indonesian background, it's not helpful to bring chill, laid-back mentality in the project. We need agility and proactive-ness. 