---
layout: post
title:  "Foreseeing 2022"
date:   2022-01-23 19:58:01 +0200
categories: strategy, investment, thoughts
---

> DISCLAIMER: The views and opinions expressed here are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of Devoteam. Any content provided by our bloggers or authors are of their opinion and are not intended to malign any religion, ethnic group, club, organization, company, individual or anyone or anything.


# New Chapter at Devoteam
I recently joined a French consulting company Devoteam. I was caught by surprise when I was interviewed by the HR and the subsequent processes. Maybe you've never heard the name, but the whole journey of onboarding and the current culture for business are very impressive i have to say. And i say this not to promote (also see Disclaimer above.)

# Some Thoughts to Discuss
I have some thoughts that i probably want to jot down (while installing my Latex installer ...). 
- Covid 19 Mandates
- The thoughts of Thomas Piketty book (Capital in 21st Century)
- Church
- Rust and Dfinity platform
- Kubernetes
- Real Estate investment
- Stock Market
- Venturi Aviation

## Covid 19 Mandates
I am not a left-wing or right-wing proponents. In fact, i always hate politics and bureaucracy: it's a unnecessary tool to create so many red tapes to improve human lives. Sometimes that's also one of the biggest reason why I don't like some of my clients. However, some of these are meant for good. We create order in life to have some meaningful protocol and yet practical to do. We can challenge the protocol but only in the pursue of finding what is truer for that protocol. Vaccine mandates is one of these protocol. 
In a much celebrated Western freedom of individuals, the westerners pride themselves in the any sense of the phrase personal freedom. Freedom to them is the vehicle to express *whatever they want to express, including, counterintuitively, the freedom not to express* Canadian, France, The Netherlands, Austria, and many other countries went on strike to go against this Covid 19 Pass mandate. The strike is the symbol that they do not want to follow their government advise or mandates. I wonder if they could do the same with all the traffic symbols in highways: we do not want to follow the mandate to follow the sign "No Entry Allowed). This example and the Covid 19 Pass mandate both serve for a safe living condition. 
But you and I are very aware that this is where all these idea of *Freedom* fails to capture humanity basic problem: What is Freedom?
I propose that Freedom is where you actually follow the reality from which you have designed originally. If an iPhone was created to function and to serve the end user with multi-gesture interaction, then putting that iPhone under a wobbling table, simply because the thickness of that iPhone fits the missing gap, then it doesn't serve the original design of that iPhone (teleologically speaking). If you're body is made not for the virus, and the mandate provides you the solution to get the actual freedom you need to live a meaningful live, why should you stop it? Are you afraid that the government will take over your decisions you want to make your live and simply just because the government wants to do an ad-hoc bypass to give you a greater good? Then simply ask you that same question: why not go on strike for "No Entry Allowed" traffic symbol?

## The thoughts on Thomas Piketty Book
I decided to buy Piketty's book because his name was everywhere about 4-5 years ago. I know I am late. But I've been busy with life and other things. His study on big vast amount of data about inequality is fascinating. I'm still learning Chapter 1 but he is indeed influential in his thinking about the gap of capital's owner and the hardworking people that depends solely on their skill set. This is conceptually accurate and prophetic. If you have capital and you simply invest and reinvest in real estate and property, the capital owner will expand their capital values based on inflation and market's response to rent (the renting cost is increasing every year as the value of the building goes up proportionately). 
With this in mind, I also take this as a serious plan for my own money: if you just receive salary based on labor works, it's likely that the value of your wealth has to come from your CV. You should instead reinvest your salary into something else worth investing. 
I could give you some of the tips. 
- Try to see a very intertwined investment in which if the investment fails, the whole economy of country fails. This is quite save form of investment. Real estate, especially housing, comes to this category. Remember 2008 Financial Crisis. Any government learned from that hard failures. You could get good return of investment here but it might be not that explosive. Governmental bonds might also be an option. Although I have never seen any bonds available for any private individuals.
- Volatility will give you headache. Stock market and Cryptocurrency fall into this. Remember that if you trust micromanagement of your investment portfolio is the key to gain profit, think about it twice: selling and buying at a very short period of time is a psyche approach you put into yourself that makes your life even miserable. If you do not understand analytically investing and a thorough checks on a certain portfolio (that is why this is hard and in many times in practical), please refrain yourself from doing it.

## Church 
I've been all the way grumpy with the Church that I attend: Vineyard Amsterdam. This Church has quite a problem with the organization. They way they structure their system of communication is very bad. They believe that the model to continue the organization is the model of *relational*. Relational is another language we employ that we do not understand what it means. 
To give you an example: relation suggests that you prioritize relationship in dealing with other people under some circumstances. Say that you complain about the church for such and such issue, we provide the relational framework to overcome that problem. But this is simply not the case. If there is a problem in the church, they pretend that they hear the complaints but meaningless actions are taken to kind of solve that issue. 
Before you know, they just dismiss that issue as something like after thought. This makes the church as an organization a very disappointing form. Although I still very much appreciate the Church as organization.


## Rust and Dfinity Platform
